here's the exact strategy for how to
grow quickly on Tick Tock even if you're
starting from zero because no you are
not too late and make sure you stay till
the end where you'll also learn some of
the most common mistakes creators are
making that are stopping them from
seeing the results that they want to see
believe it or not the first step you're
going to take to grow on Tick Tock is
not going to be create content your
first step is to study the platform if
you want to dominate a platform you'll
need to know the ins and outs of that
platform what makes it breathe what
makes it come to life how do you study
Tick Tock by consuming the content from
a strategic approach instead of a
Mindless approach Tick Tock is a video
app that was designed to suck Us in and
scroll for hours on end and it succeeds
in doing that so you need to create
separation of when you're mindlessly
scrolling and on the app to be
entertained from when you're opening the
app to be intentional and to study the
content that you're coming across when
you're being intentional you want to be
looking for what works what doesn't work
what keeps you watching what sort of
things capture your attention from the
very beginning is it the shot itself is
it the text that's popping up is it what
the person says and on the flip side
what makes you scroll past a video at
what point does a video get boring to
you what could have been done to make it
more engaging what gets you to send a
video to a friend are you coming across
any trending sounds or audios that are
being used multiple times if you spend
just 30 minutes a day even studying the
platform when you open it up instead of
immediately getting sucked in you'll be
surprised how quickly you'll pick up on
things to adapt into your own strategy
and naturally studying will come natural
to you over time as you continue to
study the platform you'll notice you'll
start getting ideas for your own pieces
of content to create so later in this
video I'll teach you how to organize
your ideas and plan out your content
calendar but first let's prepare your
pro profile for visitors but Amelia I
want to start posting I want to create I
just want to grow here's the thing
Meredith if you skip this step you'll
regret it when one of your videos go
viral and you don't get any followers
from it a problem that a lot of people
run into is they jump straight into the
grind they're posting and posting and
boom one of the videos go viral
and wrong one million views later you
haven't gotten any new followers from it
so what happened there's obviously a
disconnect that's happening from your
video to your profile so what's really
important is how you set up your profile
before you even start posting how can
you convince someone to follow you
simply by glancing at your page or at
least increase that percentage of people
who do land on your page to follow you
let me break everything down for you you
have your profile photo username name
name bio and Link choice for when that
option is available your profile photo
and your username these go hand in hand
you want both of these to be clear on
who you are and what you want to be
known for so if you want to be in the
health and wellness industry and you
want to be known for Smoothie bowls and
awesome recipes maybe your handle will
be Jade wellness and the profile photo
will be a picture of you in the kitchen
holding a smoothie Bowl
you know create the atmosphere of your
page right away from those two things
then you have your name this is the part
that shows up on the very very top of
your profile some people discount this
right off the bat but it's actually more
important than you think this is where
you want to put how you want other
people to find you or discover you
because this section is extremely search
friendly if you go to tick tock right
now and you search smoothie recipes then
you toggle over to the tab that says
users anyone who has the term smoothie
recipes in their name will appear in
those search results so what's that
title for you or phrase that will help
people find you social media coach book
talk coffee reviews modern home decor
what is that phrase that someone might
actually type into the search engine to
come across your account put those juicy
terms keywords whatever you want to call
them into your name now let's get into
your bio at the time of filming this
Tick Tock allows 80 characters in your
bio which doesn't feel like a lot to me
when you compare it to Instagram's what
150. now how you craft your bio is going
to look completely different depending
on what your goals are with your page
but just in general the most common
mistake I see people make with their
bios is making it about themselves wifey
mother of two with a fur baby wine and
coffee fanatic catch me in a snuggie
I don't know what that was I'm sorry
instead what I like to do and what works
really well for me and many other
businesses and creators is communicate
the value that you and your page
provides when somebody presses that
follow button so let me pop up some
examples teaching you how to grow on
Tick Tock and Instagram teaching you how
to become a full-time content creator
even just social media tips pretty
straightforward now this works in all
sorts of niches and Industry book talk
Fitness home decor all of these profiles
tell someone what they will gain if they
choose to follow that person it's kind
of like a marketing strategy in a sense
like us human beings we're
subconsciously selfish we make decisions
for ourselves things that'll help our
personal gain so even selecting and
choosing to follow someone we follow
them when we feel like it's going to
benefit us so you want to be able to
communicate in your bio how somebody
will benefit from following you I hope I
explained that well now I know not
everybody does this there are successful
creators and influencers out there whose
bios literally say something like under
construction or nothing but this is
simply just a strategy to increase the
likelihood of somebody pressing the
follow button because it's communicated
to them clearly what the Gain Is by
following then finally when you hit 1000
followers you will be able to add a link
to your profile if you're someone who
wants to turn Tick Tock into a full-time
thing or become a full-time content
creator then the link in your bio should
direct your audience to either a freebie
that passively grows an email list or a
link where you can be making money like
an Amazon storefront now I cannot
emphasize enough the importance of
having an email list and not just the
importance of having an email list but
the importance of starting with an email
list before you try to grow hear me out
hear me out just give me give me like 30
seconds to explain the importance of
this okay I one time had a student come
up to me and they're like oh my gosh
Millie I want to gain 10 000 followers
on Instagram and I was like let's do it
so I was like yeah let's do it let's
work on your branding let's get clarity
on your goals blah blah and then once we
had Clarity on goals I was like all
right let's make a freebie and she was
like
what like I want to grow on Instagram I
don't want to grow an email list like
why are you making me do this and I was
like trust me so we made a freebie it
literally looked took less than 24 hours
she made a free gift for anybody who
follows her and they could download it
and get fun like fill in a bowl planner
right so took less than 24 hours she put
it on her Link in BIO and then after it
was created then we started to grow her
account what had happened was three
months later she gained 30 000 followers
on Instagram she grew her email list to
2 000 followers and then she was like
you know what I think I want to start
coaching she had 2 000 people where she
could email and she's like hey I'm
starting a coaching opportunity that's
related to this freebie that you
downloaded earlier and you know what
happened she sold out with one email and
quit her job and became a full-time
coach because we started with an email
list anywho I'm not gonna explain in
this video how to create start an email
list I do have this video that I'll put
in the card above you can watch that
after this video it explains the whole
email analyst freebie thing how to do it
also you can watch that one after this
but let's let's get into grown on Tick
Tock okay so I've touched on this a few
times and I think it's finally time we
talk about this picking your Niche it's
impossible to teach you how to grow
video without this phrase coming up when
I started my Creator journey I was
watching every video on YouTube on how
to grow on Instagram how to grow on
YouTube just whatever and I would
literally roll my eyes anytime I heard
somebody say pick a niche pick a niche I
never know what to say because it's
everywhere now the reason it's
everywhere is because it works do you
have to pick a niche in order to be
successful no you don't at least not on
Tick Tock because the algorithm is much
different over there than it is for
Instagram and YouTube but it can
actually help the algorithm understand
you more if you do pick a niche for
example if you just love coffee and all
of your videos are about coffee and
espresso like recipes how to pull a shot
frothing milk latte art that's going to
help Tick Tock be like oh okay you're a
coffee espresso account so we'll show
your videos to people who like that sort
of content done whereas if you're just
posting anything and everything it's
going to be a lot harder for the
algorithm to understand who to push your
content to not impossible just harder so
how does one pick a niche and what do
you do if you don't want to pick one or
you're a multi-passionate person and you
don't know you can't let's start with
the definition of Niche Niche is defined
as a specialized segment of the market
for a particular kind of product or
service so we have a specialized segment
of the market this is where you get
categories like Fitness fashion Wellness
Foodies you know but you actually want
to get more specific because the rest of
the definition says for a particular
kind of product or service so if you're
in the fitness Niche what type of
Fitness who are you creating your
content for so a complete Niche would be
at home fitness for moms budget friendly
home decor and inspo Amazon fashion for
women then you create content around
that niche now what do you do if you
don't want to pick a niche or you're
you're a multi-passionate person you
don't know how to narrow down your
interest well if you want to be
strategic you can focus more so on the
who instead of the what so who do you
want to reach and why do you want to
reach them maybe you want to inspire
people to live a healthier lifestyle or
you want to reach college students who
want to escape reality for a little bit
ask yourself who do you want to reach
and what sort of content would that
person want to see today then start
creating content like that now if you
don't want to be strategic or you find
that being strategic is actually
stopping you from creating then don't
pick a niche don't be strategic all the
time just create film anything and
everything document your day your food
your dog pooping like just create the
more you create the more you'll find
what feels true and authentic to you
like just scroll back to some of my
first YouTube videos I didn't have have
a niche I was literally telling Ghost
Stories on an abandoned train in one
video than doing a drunk boyfriend tag
in the next just enjoy the creative
process of discovering who you are as a
content creator and take the pressure
off yourself of like having to do
everything right and just do everything
okay so let's say you have your Niche
picked out so what type of content do
you create from there my current
strategy is rotating between three types
of content I have search friendly
Evergreen content trending and degaf my
search friendly and Evergreen content
this is content that is not reliant on
Trends and can be relevant a month from
now a year from now
Etc these are videos that I could batch
maybe 10 videos in a day and it doesn't
matter if I post it today in two months
in a year that video will still be
relevant so like this video you're
watching how to grow on Tick Tock this
video will probably still be relevant a
month from now six months from now a
year from now because it's not reliant
on a trending audio another example of
search friendly content or Evergreen
content that's outside of my industry is
recipes
will just pop off anytime anywhere
unless you're like doing pumpkin spice
recipe for
Thanksgiving Day you know like that's
obviously very specific to a day but if
you're doing like smoothie bowls I don't
know why I'm on the Smoothie Bowl
example today but if you're doing
smoothie bowls like that's search
friendly content anytime so it could be
like smoothie bowls using acai powder or
smoothie bowls using pataya right so
that's search friendly content where
anybody could look it up anytime if you
want to get some ideas for how to come
up with this search friendly content use
current search engines I like to just go
to tick tock and type in my Niche or
industry in the search engine and see
what's recommended because that's going
to tell me what people are currently
searching for so if I look up Tick Tock
maybe what's recommended is Tick Tock
tips Tick Tock Trends if you look up
Home Decor see what that recommendation
is tap on an item scroll down see what
those videos are about there's even this
section that says others searched for
and it's going to give you literal video
ideas right there that you can create
another tool that I like to use is
something called answer the public
answerthepublic.com I think you're
limited to like three searches a day two
searches a day so just put in a keyword
and it's going to spit out comment
searches on Google using who what when
where why other things and it's going to
give you some of the top searches using
that word these search friendly videos
and Evergreen videos are the videos that
I include a call to action on so after I
do maybe a talking head video where I'm
like this is how you grow on YouTube at
the end of the video I'm gonna say hi
I'm Millie I'm a social media coach
follow me for more videos like this or
follow me for more YouTube tips or
comment below some common YouTube
questions that you might have that's
what a call to action is and the search
friendly videos or the Evergreen videos
that I make those are the ones that have
the call to action next we have trending
content Trends definitely help you get a
spike in views and a spike of traction
to your account I don't rely heavily
soul fully on Trends because they come
and go if I'm only making trending
content I find myself on the phone 24 7
like what's today's Trend what's the
next Trend oh I gotta film This I Gotta
film this I'm somebody like I don't want
to create every day I really don't I
want to create maybe once a week
maybe once a month so I like to do like
more search friendly Evergreen content
stuff but I'll adopt Trends whenever I
have that Spike of energy so that's why
about a third of my content is more so
trending content now a way to keep up
with Trends is by you doing a simple
search in Tick Tock looking up hashtags
like hashtag trend alert or hashtag
trend watch Finding creators that
basically only post hey this is a trend
coming out this is a trend coming out
because your goal with Trends is to try
to be on like the first Peak before the
trend takes off you want to be one of
the first Originators so looking at
those hashtag trend alerts or following
people like Jackson's tips that will
help you stay more up to date with those
Trends as they're coming into Peak and
hopefully you could get on it before it
Peaks them before it takes off so let's
say a sound is taking off and there's a
specific way to use the sound it's like
you know that sound that was like burnt
[Music]
no okay where it was like Loop where
somebody was like they would look at the
camera and be like oh let me move you
and then all of a sudden it would Loop
did that make sense I have the most
success with that sound you would do the
loop you would take part in the trend of
having that Loop happen visually but
maybe you would change like the text to
be something more relevant to your Niche
I'm explaining this horribly let me
think of something else let's say you
come across a sound there's a trending
sound everybody's using it a specific
way where it's like oh you open and shut
the door and every time like you pop up
text on the screen of something mean
somebody said to you right so you like
do that that's the trend you change the
text of like something mean that
somebody said and then you use the sound
as like background noise of you like
let me teach you this one thing and talk
to the camera like that's not relevant
to the trend so try to when you use a
trending sound be relevant to what goes
with the sound it helps you see the most
success with the sound I know some
people like to put the trending sound
like any trending sound on the
background of all their videos which is
great but I've found you see the most
success when staying relevant and then
finally the third type of content I
create is like degaf content this is
just whatever the heck you want it to be
this is where you get to be you and your
audience gets to connect with you no
these might not perform well from an
analytic perspective in the beginning
but I found that having some creative
freedom where I don't feel bound to
rules and strategies helps my mental
health a lot and helps me avoid burnout
plus as you start to grow people will
continue to follow you for you so it's
great having that sort of casual content
where you can really build a community
and connection with your followers now
bonus tip when it comes to creating
content I love doing
serieses or playlists on my profile like
I'll have a playlist of just all
influencer tips or all tick tock tips
and really creating content that is
bingeable to your audience and it's easy
to find organized so having some sort of
series that's like part one part two
part three definitely keeps people
engaged and helps people discover what
you want to be known for maybe I do a
continued Series where it's like Tick
Tock updates you didn't know about part
one and then I do that week's Tick Tock
update next week Tick Tock updates you
didn't know about part two and then
people start to know me I was like oh
she's The Tick Tock updates girl you
know what I mean so creating a series
can not only help create bingeable
content but also can help people
understand who you are what you want to
be known for all right now that we're
talking about creating content let's
talk about how you can organize your
content and create a Content account
under as you're doing your research and
you're coming across ideas or videos
that inspire you it's important to one
save audios that you want to use for
later I like to save videos into
collections so my business profile I
have two profiles I have my business
profile which is that it's Modern Millie
one and then I have my personal one
which is not going to tell you because
it's a burner secret account so on my
Instagram or on my it's Modern Millie
account this is the account where I am
doing my content research I follow
people within my Niche I'm saving videos
that are related to my business so I
have a collection that's like okay Tick
Tock tips or sounds like trending audios
to use Instagram tips content creator
tips influencer tips so I have different
collections for future video ideas that
I want to make and if there's a trending
audio that I come across on like my
personal account I'll send it to my
business account so that I have like
trending audios all organized in one
place then what I would do is I would
take all of those ideas or even the ones
in my head on my phone I take it over to
my laptop because I don't like being on
my phone I actually hate being on my
phone especially because my business is
solely on my phone I try to do all my
business on my laptop so when I'm doing
my user research I'm mostly doing like
tick tock on the computer like I'm not
scrolling on my phone I'm on my computer
I'm doing my SEO research or like the
search friendly words I'm doing my SEO
research on the laptop plugging in my
content into a Content calendar I do
have this content calendar this is a
notion content calendar that I used to
do a 30-day Tick Tock challenge where I
basically posted to tick tock two to
three times a day for 30 days which
helped me grow 20 000 followers in 30
days this content calendar I will link
it below for completely for free you can
use it it helped me so much organize my
ideas basically there's a section for
brain dumping all your ideas you can put
a link to where you got the inspiration
from add notes it's like oh this is how
I want to adapt it to my Niche or my
industry it helped keep all my ideas in
one place and then when I was ready to
film it I would move it to like the
creation section and then after it was
filmed I would schedule it onto the
calendar so that I could visually see
what videos I'm working on and when I
wanted those videos to go up so that
notion content calendar helped me a ton
and if you're somebody who wants to be a
little bit more organized like that or
maybe you hate being on your phone all
the time and you'd prefer to be on a
laptop I will link that down below now
that you're filming your videos how long
should your videos be here's the thing
you see a lot of people say like oh the
sweet spot is between like five and
seven seconds or over 11 to 15 seconds
anything in between that your video will
fail like you see a bunch of people
saying
there's no magic answer because here's
the thing the video video length that
performs well for you is going to look
different than the next person because
it's on two different topics sometimes
like Fitness videos where it's hey this
is your workout of the day workout of
the day fitness videos perform best when
they're over two minutes long because it
shows a complete workout routine right
versus if you're doing like a smoothie
Bowl recipe maybe those actually perform
better at 20 seconds because you could
just put all the ingredients on the
screen do some b-roll in the back boom
so the video length depends on what
topic the video is about what industry
you're in even the purpose of your video
think about what's the purpose of your
video if you're educating obviously you
can't educate within five to seven
seconds that that doesn't really do
anything that doesn't provide value so
if my goal is to educate my video will
be longer and that's okay and it will
probably perform well because I want it
to be as educational as possible there's
no magic number here video length
depends on what the purpose of that
video is and obviously you'll just be
testing what works best for you and how
fast-paced you can make your videos so
obviously I'm not going to just sit in
front of the camera and be like this is
how you grow on Tick-Tock and talk
really slow
and breathe like I'm gonna cut out the
pauses and try to keep it as fast-paced
as possible but no magic number here so
then the question is how often should
you post here's the thing the more you
post the more you grow that's just like
a general rule of thumb if you're
somebody who is able to post two times a
day every single day for 60 days
straight do it you're gonna see rapid
results that consistency is amazing but
that's unrealistic for a lot of us
that's unrealistic for me and I even
have a team of people I can't do two
times a day that's exhausting for me so
when you think of the word consistency
this this is important everybody says
pick a niche be consistent and provide
value that's how you grow yes but
consistency doesn't mean post every day
the word consistency is what sort of
cadence can you post and realistically
keep up with for at least 30 days is
that three times a week Monday Wednesday
Friday if you could post Monday
Wednesday Friday consistently for like
10 weeks that's consistency you don't
have to post every day obviously again
the more you're able to post the quicker
you will see results so it depends on
how quickly you want to grow how much
time you have but all of us are going to
have a different consistency because we
have different Lifestyles some of us
maybe we're nurses who are working the
night shift so we don't have the ability
to like post all the time maybe we're
parents and we have like five kids and
it's hard to create content when you're
juggling five kids find a consistency
that works best for you try to challenge
yourself if you can but don't be
unrealistic with the goals that you set
for yourself be gracious towards you
your mental health your physical health
and maybe maybe task one is posting once
a week now when you're posting what
hashtags should you use again I'm not
gonna be like if you use this hashtag
you're gonna go viral that's not a thing
it's not like there's a magical hashtag
where it's like oh my gosh I'm a viral
holy crap everybody uses hashtag you
want to use hashtags that are relevant
to these three things what your video is
about what your video looks like
visually and who you are your profile
what is your profile about if I do a day
in my life video where I'm like this is
day in my life as a YouTuber first thing
was what the video is about so I'm gonna
do hashtag day in my life hashtag day in
my life as a YouTuber hashtag YouTuber
life okay that's what that video is
about second thing was what is in the
video visually so maybe in the shot is
like my YouTube setup so I'm like okay
hashtag YouTube setup I show my coffee
right maybe I show a specific coffee
recipe in that day in a life where I'm
like oh and then I made this coffee it's
actually really good you do this much
almond milk and this so maybe I'll do
hashtag coffee recipe so like it's
visually that's like you have coffee in
there you have San Diego you have
YouTube set up right visually that's
that's what you see it's still kind of
relevant and then third what your
profile is about so I'm gonna do hashtag
social media coach content creator
hashtag YouTuber right so those are kind
of the three things that I use within
picking hashtags to help you find
relevant hashtags what you're going to
do is look up your Niche or industry on
Tick Tock I know it's so easy right and
then you're gonna toggle over to the
hashtags tab this is going to give you a
list of hashtags that are relevant to
your nation industry I will say this tip
but I haven't tested it myself to know
if it works but I have heard some people
say like oh when you look at this list
of hashtags pick like two that have a
big number and then two that have like a
little number where it's like oh only a
thousand uses so like mix up the number
of hashtags based off on how many uses
I'm hesitant to give that tip because it
sounds like an Instagram tip that's like
five years enough three years old and
like that wasn't like it turned out to
be like an outdated tip so I'm hesitant
to give that tip but that's something I
will say just because I have heard it a
few times at this point and it's
something that you can test if you're
interested now let's go into some common
mistakes that I see creators make common
mistake number one trying to go viral
every time you post I I'm guilty of this
I am guilty of this y'all especially
when you're in let like that growth
mindset where you're like I need to grow
I need to grow I need to grow you're
trying to go viral every time you're
like how can I go viral how can I go
viral when the thought process should be
how can I show up for my audience today
if you like 80 of your energy goes
towards providing value to your audience
and value is defined in four ways
educational entertaining relatable and
inspirational so if you can create
content for your target audience that's
educational entertaining it's
inspirational or relatable then you're
doing good 80 of your energy goes
towards that value focus and then maybe
20 is like okay let's try to like go
viral with this one let's try to go
viral trending audio trending sounds
right but stop trying to go viral every
time you post focus on the value and
remember what's valuable to you is going
to look different or can look different
than what's valuable to your target
audience you want to think what will my
audience or the people that I want to
reach what do they find valuable and
then from that mindset create content
that caters to that mistake number two
going back and deleting posts Tick Tock
doesn't want to like push creators that
are constantly like creating and then
deleting creating then deleting and for
Instagram maybe this is the same but for
Instagram when you delete completely
delete posts you're deleting data
basically that you were feeding
Instagram I was like Hey Instagram this
is how you categorize my account this is
who I am this is the type of stuff that
I'm posting and then you delete it and
then Instagram's like okay who's this
person who's this person and then slowly
but surely your stuff is getting less
and less reach because you're slowly but
surely deleting the algorithm that was
like building up your account of what
you were known by so like that's kind of
the complex side of Instagram but could
be similar for tick tock so just don't
delete your posts just let them live
there enjoy the creative process
remember my old YouTube videos they're
still up they have nothing to do with
what I do now but they're still up
they're still up mistake number three
not going back to study your posts I
recommend doing this monthly go back
study your posts study analytics look to
see what posts performed really well
what posts didn't perform well how could
you make that post improve How Could You
recreate success and for the ones that
didn't perform well that doesn't mean oh
I need to stop doing this no it just
means maybe that approach of that
concept needs to be shifted maybe the
hook in the beginning didn't capture
attention so you're not looking at what
succeeded and what failed you're looking
at what did my audience enjoy and how
can I improve this content to cater to
my audience's values or what my audience
values so always go back to study your
posts I do it monthly it's just a great
Habit to get into now a quick disclaimer
that I probably should have said in the
beginning but know while we're here I
know there's millions of tick tock tips
and tricks and strategies out there I'm
not claiming it's my way or the highway
the strategies that I'm teaching in this
video are simply what worked really well
for me and worked well for my students
so these are simple strategies that you
can start implementing today and as you
post and as you grow you can continue to
figure out what works best for you your
goals your Niche and your audience
number four common mistake is using
irrelevant hashtags let's not use
hashtag fyp okay we don't need to do
that anymore we want to stay relevant to
the video helps Tick Tock categorize
your content it helps push your content
to the right people so use relevant
hashtags mistake number five not
replying to comments y'all try to reply
to every single comment one it shows
that you're building Community it shows
that you care about the people who are
following you that you're building
genuine relations and that's really what
Tick Tock and social media is all about
is like creating those connections and
connections you wouldn't be able to make
anywhere else really and two when you
reply to comments you're also feeding
the tick tock algorithm or you're
telling Tick Tock hey this video is
doing well on engagement because it's
getting this many comments so it helps
benefit your video and how that video
performs it helps create and build
community and I love replying to
comments with a video yo so if somebody
asks a question in my comment section
reply with video make it a series
because if that one video goes viral and
you have a response with a video so many
people are gonna go to that video and
then they're gonna see that video and
they're gonna go the comments and
they're gonna see the next video so
replying to comments with a video makes
like this chain reaction of bingeable
content where if one video goes viral it
just like creates a chain reaction it's
pretty cool a fun strategy to do but
reply to comments even if you're not
replying with a video and you're just
replying saying thank you reply to
comment now if you want to see exactly
how I grew 20 000 followers in 30 days
then watch this video here where I
documented the entire process you'll see
how I set up my Tick Tock strategy and
the backlash that happens when a video
of yours goes viral thank you so much
for watching I'll see you in the next
one follow your joy bye